README.md, before:

# PDBe API Training Notebooks

This repository contains Jupyter Notebooks that can be used as training materials for understanding how the PDBe REST API works, and provides a number of examples of answering specific questions about PDB entries using the API.

## Getting Started

Either use Binder to use the notebook:

[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/PDBeurope/pdbe-api-training/master)

Or

You will need to have Jupyter installed on your machine. For Linux/OSX machines, simply type:

```
pip3 install --upgrade pip
pip3 install jupyter
```

For Windows machines (optionally also for Linux/OSX) you can install Jupyter with conda-forge:
https://conda-forge.org/

### Prerequisites

If installing using Anaconda, there is no additional prerequisites. If installing using pip3, you will need to have Python3 on your machine, and of course pip3

### Installing

From command line on Unix machine these would be the steps setting up everyone:

```
mkdir pdbe_jupyter
cd pdbe_jupyter
git clone https://github.com/PDBeurope/pdbe-api-training .
jupyter notebook
```

Jupyter Notebook will open a window in your browser, and you can select the specific notebooks you would like to view.


## Install and run with Docker

```shell
docker build -t pdbe-api-training .
docker run -p 8888:8888 pdbe-api-training
```



## Authors

* **Mihaly Varadi** - *Initial work* - [github](https://github.com/mvaradi)
* **John Berrisford** - *Additional notebooks* - [github](https://github.com/berrisfordjohn)
* **David Armstrong** - *PDBe statistics notebooks and other maintenance* - [github](https://github.com/drarmstrong)
* **Preeti Choudhary** - *Ligand interactions and predicted models notebooks* - [github](https://github.com/cypreeti)
* **Joseph Ellaway** - *Protein superposing notebooks* - [github](https://github.com/Joseph-Ellaway)
* **Marcus Bage** - *Complexes notebook and other maintenance* - [github](https://github.com/mbage)

## License

This project is licensed under the EMBL-EBI License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* Thanks to the PDBe team for suggestions during creating these materials

Commit message:

Mount dir to docker
Allows work to be saved in jupyter-server and then loaded in later

README.md, after:

# PDBe API Training Notebooks

This repository contains Jupyter Notebooks that can be used as training materials for understanding how the PDBe REST API works, and provides a number of examples of answering specific questions about PDB entries using the API.

## Getting Started

Either use Binder to use the notebook:

[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/PDBeurope/pdbe-api-training/master)

Or

You will need to have Jupyter installed on your machine. For Linux/OSX machines, simply type:

```
pip3 install --upgrade pip
pip3 install jupyter
```

For Windows machines (optionally also for Linux/OSX) you can install Jupyter with conda-forge:
https://conda-forge.org/

### Prerequisites

If installing using Anaconda, there is no additional prerequisites. If installing using pip3, you will need to have Python3 on your machine, and of course pip3

### Installing

From command line on Unix machine these would be the steps setting up everyone:

```
mkdir pdbe_jupyter
cd pdbe_jupyter
git clone https://github.com/PDBeurope/pdbe-api-training .
jupyter notebook
```

Jupyter Notebook will open a window in your browser, and you can select the specific notebooks you would like to view.


## Install and run with Docker

Make sure your Docker client is running and then run:

```shell
cd /path/to/your/pdbe-api-training/
docker build -t pdbe-api-training .
docker run -p 8888:8888 -v /path/to/your/pdbe-api-training/pdbe_tutorial_2024/:/pdbe_api_tutorial/pdbe_tutorial_2024 pdbe-api-training
```

Now open your browser and go to `http://localhost:8888/` and you should see the Jupyter Notebook interface. The `-v` flag ensures changes you make to the notebooks will be saved in the `pdbe_tutorial_2024` directory in the repository cloned to your local machine.


## Authors

* **Mihaly Varadi** - *Initial work* - [github](https://github.com/mvaradi)
* **John Berrisford** - *Additional notebooks* - [github](https://github.com/berrisfordjohn)
* **David Armstrong** - *PDBe statistics notebooks and other maintenance* - [github](https://github.com/drarmstrong)
* **Preeti Choudhary** - *Ligand interactions and predicted models notebooks* - [github](https://github.com/cypreeti)
* **Joseph Ellaway** - *Protein superposing notebooks* - [github](https://github.com/Joseph-Ellaway)
* **Marcus Bage** - *Complexes notebook and other maintenance* - [github](https://github.com/mbage)

## License

This project is licensed under the EMBL-EBI License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* Thanks to the PDBe team for suggestions during creating these materials
